I was five years old when my parents moved to Glyn Terrace. I was an only child and I
was told that they were moving house because I was going to have a baby brother or sister.
I didn't really want to leave Trevallies Cossages but I soon settled in to Glyn Terrace
and found it was a delightful place to live. There were plenty of playmates there. Most
of the people in the terrace spoke Welsh and when I think of it, how lovely it was here.
The children had the freedom of the mountains. We played in the stream. There was one boy,
Alan Thomas, who lived just down the road. His favourite hobby was trying to catch the
fish in the stream. He'd put his hand under the stones and pulled the trout out. I always
went to pick bilberries. All the children picked bilberries and I knew when I picked
bilberries there would be bilberry pie for tea the following day. Sometimes my father,
after a day's work, used to say we'd go pick bilberries and so he used to pick a lot.
I didn't pick all that many but it was lovely going up on the hills. I also picked firewood.
The children, all the cottages had coal fires and the children went into the woodlands,
with a sack and picked the kindling wood and that was a nice occupation. Sometimes we would
see the patients from Pendafrin Hall Sanatorium walking around Pendafrin Woods. It was a delightful
place. Of course we played in the woodland, over the river. The green was lovely there.
The boys played football and the girls ran around there. It was altogether a delightful
place to live. And then the war came and the evacuees arrived from Liverpool. They thought
it was a wonderful place after Liverpool. The children, it mixed in with the other children
very well. The children from Liverpool were mainly Roman Catholics but we all played together.
The local children went down to the Sunday school, Glanaravon. We walked down the stream
path on a Sunday afternoon. Sometimes on a Sunday morning I went to church in my best
clothes and then I came home at lunch time and I put on my best clothes for a short time
in case I got my best clothes dirty. Then I dressed up again to go to Sunday school
in the afternoon. The Sunday school teacher was Bob Thomas from Glanaravon. It was a well
attended Sunday school and there were several teachers there. I was in the class that sat
on the big wooden bench in Glanaravon. In the winter Glanaravon schoolroom was lovely
and warm. The caretaker Ethel Jones made a fire in the old black stove and heated the
room up before the children arrived. It was a very happy Sunday school and of course there
was the Perks Sunday school Christmas party. Then in the summer there was the annual trip
to Rill, to the Marine Lake mainly. We all loved going around on the equipment in the
Marine Lake and especially the ghost train. It was a wonderful day out, a treat, especially
so during the war years.